


Lemma: It is always optimal to send the fastest runner on the far side back with the torch.

Proof: If anyone else went, then not only would their time back be longer, but whoever brings the torch back has to eventually cross again (at least one more time). Choosing a slower runner could leave this time unchanged, or increase it, but in no case does sending the torch back with a slower runner result in a more optimal outcome. QED

Lemma: Any optimal move of n walker will result in 2n-3 trips arcross the bridge.

Proof: Consider there are only two walkers on the near side of the bridge.
Then they can just cross. 2*2 - 3 = 4-3 = 1.

Now assume the lemma holds for all number of walkers less than n.
To move a single walker across the bridge, he must cross, and someone else must also cross back to return the torch to the others.

Then we are left with n-1 walkers, which we know requires 2(n-1) - 3 = 2n - 5 bridge crossings.
But because we had the 2 crossings from before, the overall number of crossings for the company was 2n - 5 + 2 = 2n - 3 crossings. QED

OK, so we're going to assume that these choices are made beginning from the slowest walker, and moving to faster ones.

There seem to be 2 ways to move walkers:
    1. We can cross individually.
        - in which case, we run someone down with the fastest runner available, and return that runner to get back to work.
    2. We can move in pairs.
        - in which case, we first move the fastest 2 runners out to the far side, bring the fastest back, move the 2 slowest out together, and bring the second fastest back [he was put out there to bring the torch back].

I would REALLY like to know if I'm missing any movement strategies.
There seem to only be the two, because every slowest runner has to cross with someone slower than him, by definition.
It can either be the fastest one to minimize its time back, or the second slowest, so that the slowest "eats" the second slowest's time.
There doesn't seem to be any tactical advantage to doing anything else.

There is a tradeoff when to do each.
We say that the fastest two runners available on the near side are F_1, and F_2, where F_1 is the faster of the two, and that S_1, and S_2 are also the slowest and second slowest runners available on the near side of the bridge.
So, if we do individual crossing, then we want this seqence of moves:

F_1, S_1 -->
<-- F_1
F_1, S_2 -->
<-- F_1

Really the same move twice.
Giving us S_1 + 2F_1 + S_2 total move time.

Compare this to moving a pair. Then the best strategy is the following:

F_1, F_2 -->
<-- F_1
S_1, S_2 -->
<-- F_2

Meaning we have 2F_2 + F_1 + S_1 travel time.

So, we would choose one over the other, say pair over individual, when:

    2F_2 + F_1 + S_1 < S_1 + 2F_1 + S_2
                2F_2 < F_1 + S_2           (call this Ineq 1)


The algorithm is the following:

```
Repeat until the near side of the bridge is empty:
    If Inequality 1 is satisfied then
        Perform a pair crossing.
    Else
        Cross S_1 individually.
```

Theorem: This algorithm, A, is optimal.

Proof: Yeah, yeah, A(I), Opt(I), they disagree at some point.
In particular, they disagree on the choice of an individual or pair crossing.
[These are the only 2 optimal movement options]

If the cross time of pair or individual would be strictly lower, then A(I) will pick the right one.

An interesting case is when the value of doing a pair or inidividual crossing is equal.
Then A(I) would do an individual crossing, and we can say that Opt(I) performs a pair crossing.
Now, if A(I) chooses another individual, then we're fine, but what if it finds it to perform a pair with S_2 and S_3?

Then we can be sure that it is more optimal to do whatever Opt(I) did with S_3 than put it in a pair crossing with S_2.
Can't be individual. If so, A(I) would have agreed.

S_3 was piared with S_4 then in Opt(I).
What does A(I) have to say about S_4?