

Let A(I) be the non-correct output of A on I.
Opt(I) an optimal soln with max rows in common with A(I).

Let i be first row of difference.
Any changes need to be done in pairs so that a checker is effectively moved from one column to another [else, it would change the row value], so the following argument can be applied to any such pairs without loss of generality.

Let j be the column which is 0 in A(I) and 1 in Opt(I), and k be the column which is 1 in A(I), and 0 in Opt(I).
Also, let r_x = c_x - a_x (the remaining ones to be placed in column x) forall x in [n].
Now, we have that r_j <= r_k, since k was picked by A and j was not.
Thus, we want r'_x = r_x - Opt(I)_{i,x}, that is, the remaining ones to be placed after row i.

Notice that r'_j = r_j - 1, and r'_k = r_k - 0. So,
r_j <= r_k
r_j - 1 < r_k
r'_j < r'_k

So, we con consider the rest of these columns.
There are strictly more to place now in col k than in col j.
This means there *must* exist some later row (call it p) on which col j is 0, and col k is 1 [consider the ones in k as buckets, and ones in j as balls; only assign one ball to each box, and the boxes will not all be full].

Now, let's contruct Opt'(I), which is exactly the same as Opt(I), except that the points 
{(i, j), (i, k), (p, j), (p, k)} are all inverted from their values in Opt(I).
Now, the row i agrees with A(I) (again, apply this to other pairs until this lines up), because the values in cols j and k now agree with those in A(I).
This solution is also correct.
Because in rows i and p we have a 0 and 1 each which we invert, we don't change the value of the row, and because in each column, there is also a 0 and 1 which we invert, we don't change the value of the column.
^ VERY poorly worded.

So, this construction is a contradiction on the definition of Opt(I).
Thus, we can conclude that A is indeed correct.