


Let G = {G_1, G_2, G_3, ..., G_n} be the set of goods, and G_H, G_W be the goods assigned to the husband and wife, respectively.

Then we consider the algorithm:

```
Repeat until G is empty:
    W and H take turns choosing the good they have valued the highest, which is still part of G.
    They remove this good from G and place it in their own collections.
```

Theorem. This algorithm, A, produces a split which both W and H would find fair, if it exists.

Proof.

Assume, to reach a contradiction, that this is not the case.
Then there exists some input I on which some fair arrangement is possible, but A(I) is not fair.

Let Opt(I) be a fair output which agrees with A(I) for the maximum number of steps taken by A of any other fair solution.

Let G_i be the first assignment on which A(I) and Opt(I) disagree.
Say this assignment occurs at time t, and that G_i was assigned to W (WLOG) in A(I), but to H in Opt(I) (not at time t).

This means some other good, G_k, is assigned to W, where it was chosen by H in A(I).
We know that G_k is available at t because A(I) and Opt(I) agree upto t.

[We know there has to be a swap between H and W (otherwise, there is no change, or one of them now has more goods than the other. [Can they have unequal numbers of goods?])]

Let W(G_x) be the priority W assigned to G_x (like n - it's position in W's ordering) (This applies to H as well).


Now we construct Opt'(I), which is exactly like Opt(I), except that G_i and G_k have been swapped.

Obviously, Opt'(I) agrees with A(I) for one more step than Opt(I).

We know that W is happy, since W(G_i) > W(G_k) (otherwise, W would have chosen G_k in A(I)).
G_k is assigned to H at some later time.

Case 1. H(G_i) < H(G_k) => Done.
Case 2. H(G_i) > H(G_k)

    Subcase A. H(G_i) = W(G_i).
        ??
    Subcase B. H(G_i) < W(G_i).
        ??