Consider the algorithm that selects the page that will NOT be accessed for the longest period of time in the future
(this is the classic optimal page-replacement algorithm, requiring foreknowledge--which we here have), which we shall
call "Not Used in the Future", or NUF. Suppose that it doesn't evict a page until the last possible moment (i.e. it is **lazy**).

Theorem: This algorithm, NUF, correctly solves the problem of fast-slow memory page eviction (i.e. it minimizes the total # of evictions).
Proof:
    
* Assume, tgac, that NUF is incorrect, i.e. that there exists some input I for which NUF produces an output that is not optimal. Call this output N(I).  
* Let Opt(I) be the output of an optimal algorithm which agrees with N(I) for the maximum number of steps.
    
* Recall that _k_ is the size (in pages) of fast memory and _n_ is the size (in pages) of slow memory.  
  Note that we will presume that _k_ < _n_ because otherwise fast memory can simply hold a copy of every page and no evictions are necessary, obviating the problem. We also suppose that _k_ > 1, since if _k_ == 1 every request for a new page (not the one in fast mem) would result in an eviction, again obviating the problem. So there are at least 2 page slots in fast memory (and thus at least 3 in slow memory, so at least pages _a_, _b_, _c_ exist, else this problem is moot).   
    
Now, let _t_ be the point where Opt(I) and N(I) first disagree, in the sequence of memory access requests. At this point, let _a_ be the page evicted in N(I).  
Let _b_ be the page evicted in Opt(I). We know _a_ != _b_, else we are done.

If t<sub>i</sub> is the time after _t_ where page _i_ is accessed again, then we know t<sub>a</sub> > t<sub>b</sub> (else NUF would have chosen _b_).

Now construct Opt'(I), which is identical to Opt(I), except that at time _t_ Opt'(I) evicts _a_ instead of _b_. Also the change according to cases below.  

It is clear that Opt'(I) is more similar to N(I) than Opt(I), so it remains to be shown that it is still optimal (i.e. that the # of evictions has not increased).  

Because we specified that NUF is lazy, and since Opt(I) and Opt'(I) agree with N(I) up to time _t_, we know that there must be some page requested at time _t_ that is not in the _k_ pages already in fast memory, thus necessitating the eviction. Call this page _c_. Now consider our three outputs at time _t_: all have pages (_a_, _b_) in fast memory, and _c_ is being requested. Opt'(I) and N(I) evict _a_ to make space, so now the cache has (_b_, _c_), whereas Opt(I) evicts _b_ leaving (_a_, _c_). Note here that at this time _t+1_ or later, there must necessarily be another eviction/request of one of these (_a_ or _b_), else NUF and hence Opt' have the same number as Opt and we are done. We show that Opt'(I) is still optimal:  
  
- Case 1: At time _u_, some eviction must occur and Opt(I) evicts _a_ in favor of _j_. Have Opt'(I) evict _b_, leaving both at (_j_, _c_).
- Case 2: At time _u_, a request to _b_ is made (this necessarily happens before a request to _a_ because of NUF). Then Opt(I) evicts _a_ to make room, giving (_b_, _c_). Then Opt'(I) can get from (_b_, _c_) (previous state) to that state in 1 or 0 evictions. Thus #evictions(Opt') <= #evictions(Opt) and it is equally optimal.   
- Case 3: At time _u_, a request to _b_ is made and Opt(I) chooses to evict _c_ (or whatever other page it has), leaving (_b_,_a_). Then we can do the same with Opt'(I) in 1 eviction.

Generally, another way to put this scenario (after time _t_) is that Opt'(I) will only be nonoptimal if it must evict somewhere Opt(I) doesn't. But the first time that would happen is either a request for _b_ (in which case (Opt'(I) does nothing and Opt(I) must evict, leaving Opt'(I) at least as well off) or a request for _a_ (in which case Opt'(I) would have to evict, but which necessarily comes after a request for _b_, leaving the two even in evictions). Other requests can use the other spot until such time as Opt'(I) is aligned with Opt(I) again.

Thus in any case Opt'(I) is at least as optimal as Opt(I) **and** it agrees with N(I) for one more step. This is a contradiction, therefore N(I) is correct.